hey guys welcome to lingua marina today
we're going to learn some phrasal verbs
that relate to your
daily life if you forgot what a phrasal
verb is
you basically take a verb that you know
and then you add a preposition
and it changes its meaning sometimes
completely so today we're going to talk
about those phrasal verbs that you can
use to describe your daily
life if you're interested in learning
those phrasal verbs which are widely
used by native speakers
continue watching this video i'm going
to start with the easiest phrasal verb
out there they use all the time wake up
wake up wake up every morning i wake up
at 7 30 a.m which is not true every
morning i wake up
at 8 a.m first and then if a nanny comes
in
i sleep in till 10 a.m and sleep
in is your second phrasal verb sleep in
means you
sleep longer so normally i would wake up
at 8 am
but if a nanny comes in or if it's
sunday
i sleep in till 10. or you can also say
i like to sleep in on weekends because i
get so tired during the week
i just need those additional two hours
of sleep
sleep in to go off we use this phrasal
verb
to talk about our alarm my alarm
did not go off this morning so i did not
wake up on time
and i missed my flight to go
off my alarm didn't go off then again a
phrasal verb that you probably know
but it's worth repeating to get up so
wake up is when you open your eyes
get up is when you get out of bed i wake
up at 8am
but then i spend around an hour
scrolling through my instagram feed
so i only get up at nine which is not
really healthy
because normally you would get up within
15 minutes after you wake up and brush
your teeth and do exercises
but because these days we're so
dependent on social media and so
depending on our devices i wake up at
eight
and only get up at nine because i need
to check everything
get up to perk up you can use this verb
when you describe someone
who wasn't really in the mood before but
then he did something and he perked up
for example i'm not a morning person i
need some coffee every morning
to help me perk up because otherwise i'm
sleepy and moody
perk up you need to perk up
to work out probably know it to do some
physical exercise
every morning i work out for 10 minutes
just basic stretching
yoga flow to get myself into mood
i work out to pick out means to choose
something from a group depending on the
weather i would pick out some clothes
that i'm gonna wear today did you pick
it out yourself
on the contrary when you take something
off
you take it off after a long work day i
take my heels off and i feel amazing
take off the vest to freshen up would
you like to freshen up before
breakfast this would mean maybe take a
quick shower
maybe just rinse your face maybe put on
some makeup maybe change your clothes
depends on what you understand by
freshening up sometimes you can say you
know we're having dinner at six
it's 5 p.m right now do you want to take
like half an hour to freshen up
yes that would be great i will go take a
10 minute nap take a shower
and change i'm gonna go freshen up the
train was disgusting
when you leave your house you can say i
go out
at 8 30 a.m go out or
another phrasal verb that you can use in
this situation is head out
and i hear head out from a lot of
americans i normally
head out at around 9am every morning so
if you want to grab coffee together
9 am would be great you head out
tomorrow
or another phrasal verb that a lot of
americans use is head too
i had to work at 9am every morning
so if you want to grab coffee together
come to my place at 8 30 am we can have
coffee and then i will head to work
i had to do what i had to do then if you
have kids
you would probably use drop off a lot at
8 45 i drop off my kids at school that
means
you're driving them to school you're
dropping them off they're saying goodbye
they stay at school and you go to work i
drop you off
when you're at work you go through your
emails
means you check them you reply to them
make sure you go through all those
emails
figure out is another phrasal verb that
we use a lot when describing our daily
life
i need to figure out whether this job is
good for me i need to figure out if i
would be able to make it to dinner at 6
pm because we have
a 5 pm meeting figure out let's figure
this out
to come up with you can come up with new
plans
you can come up with an idea that means
you are creating it
we just came up with a new plan let's
have dinner
all together i'll come up with something
to wrap up means to finish i wrap up at
work
at 6 pm every day it means you finish
everything
at 6 pm so to wrap this up
in the evening you can meet up with your
friends or
you can catch up with them that means
you're meeting to grab
beer coffee kombucha whatever you drink
and
you chat over beer over coffee
can we meet up or in the evening you can
stay home and say
in the evening i come home and i lie
down
in front of my tv to reflect on
means to consider something and think
about something in a careful manner at
the end of the day
for example if you have a diary you
reflect on your day
and write your thoughts in a diary
reflect
on the year that has gone by to stay up
means to go to bed later than usual
yesterday i had to stay up till 11 pm
because i had to finish this project and
i'm really sleepy
right now stay up late and then when
you're tired
when you're working on a project where
you really want to go to sleep
you can doze off i dozed off working on
this project that means you fell asleep
on your desk
to doze off this is a very common
phrasal verb
don't doze off by the way guys if you
want to learn more phrases like that if
you want to brush up your grammar
my team and i have put together a
workbook on grammar it is called grammar
is all you need it has the most
important topics in the english language
the link will be down below feel free to
download it it also have
a workbook where you can go through
exercises and memorize whatever you just
learned
the link will be below thank you guys so
much for watching this video up to the
very end
if you're learning english and if you
want to see my weekly classes
subscribe to this channel and switch on
the notification bell to not miss my
next video
thank you so much and i will see you in
my next videos very soon
bye bye